Objective:- Assignments will help trainees to understand the basics of unix command and how to explore and use it.

DO NOT copy paste commands from internet, you can take help of the Unix in-built command manual.

Be Honest to yourself!

Important command and option to learn unix commands:-
man Command
Example:-
man ls

--help Option
Example:-
ls --help

NOTE:- Always use "man" command before using any unix commands and read about it and its options and how to use it.

Assignments:-

20)List the contents of a directory and their attributes
ls 

21)Long list the content with file, directory ownership, permissions,sizes, etc…
ls -al

22)Display the size of the file in human readable format
ls -l

23)Show all files and folders including hidden one
la -al


list directories recursively
ls -R

Sort the files by size with largest at the top
ls -S

Sort the files by last time modified displaying the newest first.
ls -t

Diplay the location of a program/command, where it is installed.


Which command is used to switch directory from one to another
cd

List all the environment variables set for the current shell environment
env

Did you notice something in the output of "env" command?
shows the HOST type


Which command is used to print the text or any variables value in the Console/Terminal?
cat

Print the value of the env variable "PATH" on the console


Is linux a case-sensitive operating system?
yes

Is, "Ls" same as "ls"?
no

Display your currently logged in user
user

how do you change the currrently logged in user to another user?
su-sudo

Which command is used to leave a shell environment that you are currently logged in to?
sudo

How do you reboot the system?
reboot

How do you shutdown the system?
reboot -p

Display all the major running processes in the system
ps aux

Understand the output of command used in above question of displaying processes, explain the meaning of each column and what data it displays?


Display the name of the system kernel
uname -r

display the kernel release number
uname -r

display teh machine type of the current kernel
uname -m

Display the name of the operating system that the kernel is running on
uname -o

Display all info that uname command can show.
uname -a

Display the name of directory that you are currently pointing to
pwd

change the current directory to another directory that you have in your system.
cd directory_name

Go up one directory
cd

Return to last directory
cd..

change the current directory to home(logged in user's) directory
cd

How to check all the command used from the prompt (Command History)
history

In which file the history of commands are stored in?
history file

How many lines of history does the system keep and from where you can change it?
nearly 100 =0 ine of history will be stored
 
How can you modify bash's history behaviour
using history flag commands

Display all the commands entered so far, now, try to run a particular command from the history list without typing that command.

NOTE:- TAB key is your friend when it comes to command completion and having long file and directory names autocompleted at the bash prompt for you. JUST BE LAZY AND USE TAB KEY FOR AUTO COMPLETION ;-)


What are the different types of shell and where are they used and how do we use them?
.sh .bash .cshell .kshell .zshell

What is the difference between login shell and non-login shell?
non login shell is started by the login shell


How do we start login shell and non-login shell?
/bin/login

What happens when you start a login shell (which files are read and used and Why)?

The login shells' responsibility is to start the non-login shell and to make sure 
that your environment variables are set so as to ensure that you can get all the 
default parameters needed at start-up. Your login shell will set the PATH
 environment variable, TERM, the UID and GID of the terminal amongst other things


What happens when you start a non-login shell (Which files are read and used and Why)?

A Non login shell is started by a program without a login.
In this case, the program just passes the name of the shell executable. 
For example, for a Bash shell it will be simply bash


What are Shell Configuration Files, why do we need it?
Shell configuration files are executed automatically when you log in and out of a shell. They initialize and configure a shell upon login and. perform cleanup operations upon logout

Explain the Order of file usage from the system/user's home directory when user logs in to the System.


What are Shell Variables, list major shell variables and what do they represent?
A shell variable is a variable that is available only to the current shell. In contrast, an environment variable is available system wide and can be used by other applications on the system.
1.PATH 2.HOME 3.USER 4.UID 5.EDITOR 6.TERM 7.SHELL

How we see all our env variables?
printenv

How we see all env variables in alphabical order?
()

What Format does the env var and its values are stored?
/etc/environment

How do you create your own varible?
myname='jim'

How do you start a new bash shell?

Launch a terminal from your desktop's application menu and you will see the bash shell. There are other shells, but most Linux distributions use bash by default. Press Enter after typing a command to run it. Note that you don't need to add an .exe or anything like that – programs don't have file extensions on Linux
bash -c or wsl


Difference between Local/Shell variables to Global Variable

An environment variable is a globally available, in a program and it child programs. A shell variable is only available in the current shell. To make a shell variable available as an environment variable


Making a variable accessible from other the shell in the system.

Show the real life use case of exporting a variable

Convert the above script file into a command, The file should run with "myappp" instead of "myapp.sh"

What is Globbing? Explain in depth with examples?

List all entries with extension ".sh"
(grep -L ".sh" <directory name>)

List all entries with numbers in it.
(grep -n)

List all entries that starts with a character and ends with a number
grep

List all entries that name length more than 5 characters
$grep -A[numberoflines(5)] [search] [file] )

What is Quoting? and Why do we need it?

Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment for special characters, to prevent reserved words from being recognized as such, and to prevent parameter expansion.

Write few(minimum 3) unique examples that shows, how a particular problem is solved using Quoting.

How do you find a particular files/directories based on a particular search criteria?
HINT:- look for commands -> locate, find and whereis
find [options] [path...] [expression]


Write major difference between locate, find and whereis?
Big difference is that "find" searches real files recursively down a given directory, while "locate" searches a database without requiring specific directory. Thus, if you have saved a file before updating database, find will find it , but locate won't.  "whereis" is to find a command such as you know its there somewhere but not in your path

How Globbing is different from locate, find and whereis?

Explain the Linux File System.
Linux file system is generally a built-in layer of a Linux operating system used to handle the data management of the storage. It helps to arrange the file on the disk storage. It manages the file name, file size, creation date, and much more information about a file.

Explain absolute and Relative Paths


What are the different ways of creating a File in linux System? Write an example of each and the difference between them.
1.$ touch filename 2.$ cat > filename 3.$ echo "This is the text" > filename 4.$ grep This file.txt > new_file1.txt 5.using a text editor like vi,nano,vm

In how many ways we can delete the files from linux system? write an example of each and teh difference between them.
1.$ wipe -rfi private/* 2.sfill 3.rm


Archiving files using linux command, write a command to archive set of files from linux commands.
tar [flag] [archive-file] [file or directory to be archived])__(1.tar cvf file.tar *.txt 


Extract the archived files from the above step.
1.tar xvf file.tar